Hacking on HTPT
---------------

This documents gives guidelines on where to start looking
for helping out in developing HTPT and what guidelines you
should follow when writing code.

We try to follow the general python best practices and styling
guides as specified in PEP.

    Beautiful is better than ugly.
    Explicit is better than implicit.
    Simple is better than complex.
    Complex is better than complicated.
    Flat is better than nested.
    Sparse is better than dense.
    Readability counts.
    Special cases aren't special enough to break the rules.
    Although practicality beats purity.
    Errors should never pass silently.
    Unless explicitly silenced.
    In the face of ambiguity, refuse the temptation to guess.
    There should be one-- and preferably only one --obvious way to do it.
    Although that way may not be obvious at first unless you're Dutch.
    Now is better than never.
    Although never is often better than *right* now.
    If the implementation is hard to explain, it's a bad idea.
    If the implementation is easy to explain, it may be a good idea.
    Namespaces are one honking great idea -- let's do more of those!

                                       - Tim Peters, The Zen of Python


Style guide
-----------

This is an extract of the most important parts of PEP-8. When in doubt on
what code style should be followed first consult this doc, then PEP-8 and
if all fails use your best judgement or ask for help.

The most important part to read is the following as it contains the guidelines
of naming of variables, functions and classes, as it does not follow pure
PEP-8.

Naming convention
.................

Class names should follow the CapWords convention.
Note: When using abbreviations in CapWords, capitalize all the letters
      of the abbreviation.  Thus HTTPServerError is better than
      HttpServerError.

Exception names should follow the class names convention as exceptions
should be classes.

Method names should follow camelCase with the first letter non-capital.

Class attributes should also follow camelCase with the first letter non-capital.

Functions should follow camelCase with the first letter non-capital.

Functions and variables that are inside the local scope of a class or method
should be all lowercase separated by an underscore.

Indentation
...........

  Use 2 spaces per indentation level.

  Continuation lines should be wrapper like this:

    foo = long_function_name(var_one, var_two,
                                 var_three, var_four)

  They should NOT be wrapper like this:

    foo = long_function_name(var_one, var_two,
                var_three, var_four)

  and NOT like this:

    # See how it creates confusion with what is inside the function?
    def long_function_name(var_one,
        var_two, var_three,
        var_four):
        print(var_one)


Tabs or Spaces?
...............

Everytime you insert a \t into any piece of code a kitten dies.

Only spaces. Please.

(code should be run with python -tt)

Maximum Line Length
...................

Maximum of 79 characters. 72 characters for long blocks of text is recommended.

Blank Lines
...........

Separate top-level function and class definitions with two blank lines.

Method definitions inside of class are separated by a single blank line.

Imports
.......

Import should be one per line as so:

    import os
    import sys
    from subprocess import Popen, PIPE

Imports are always at the top of the file just after any module comments
and docstrings, berfore module globals and constants.

Imports should be grouped in the following order:

1. standard library imports
2. related third party imports
3. local application/library specific imports

You should put a blank line between each group of imports.


Comments
........

Comments should always be up to date with the code. Don't have
comments that contraddict with the code.

Comments should always be written in English.

Blocks comments are indented to the same level of the code that
they refer to. They start with # and are followed by a single space.

Use inline comments sparingly. # Gotcha?


Documentation strings
.....................

Write docstrings for all public modules, functions, classes and
methods. Even better if you write them also for non-public methods.

Place docstrings under the def.

For a better overview on how to write docstrings consult: PEP-257


Commit messages
---------------
* Properly format git commit messages -
  As a general rule, your messages should start with a single line
  that’s no more than about 50 characters and that describes the
  changeset concisely, followed by a blank line, followed by a more
  detailed explanation

* Break large changes into smaller commits

* Make commits as self contained as possible -- if you're moving
  around code and changing logic, break it into smaller commits

* Example:
----
Short (50 chars or less) summary of changes

More detailed explanatory text, if necessary.  Wrap it to about 72
characters or so.  In some contexts, the first line is treated as the
subject of an email and the rest of the text as the body.  The blank
line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit
the body entirely); tools like rebase can get confused if you run the
two together.

Further paragraphs come after blank lines.

 - Bullet points are okay, too

 - Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, preceded by a
   single space, with blank lines in between, but conventions vary here
----

For more information read
http://git-scm.com/book/ch5-2.html#Commit-Guidelines